wordnet
=======

WordNet® is a large lexical database of English. Nouns, verbs, adjectives and adverbs are grouped into sets of cognitive synonyms (synsets), each expressing a distinct concept. Synsets are interlinked by means of conceptual-semantic and lexical relations. Wordnet® is a trademark of Princeton University. See Princeton University "About WordNet"; WordNet®. Princeton University. 2010. <a href="http://wordnet.princeton.edu"></a>

This example application is an adaptation of Wordnet® for Apache HBase™, Cassandra and other data stores using CloudGraph®, a suite of Java™ standards-based data-graph mapping and ad hoc query services for big-table sparse, columnar and other "cloud" databases. 
For more information on CloudGraph®, see <a href="http://cloudgraph.org">http://cloudgraph.org</a>

This adaptation of Wordnet® for HBase™, Cassandra and other data stores was accomplished in 5 basic steps using CloudGraph® and related tools.

1.) Model Creation. First the Wordnet® relational MySql® database schema was automatically reverse engineered and converted to UML for CloudGraph® using Plasma and PlasmaSDO® Relational Database (RDB) provisioning tools. Models can be easily hand written as well. The Wordnet® data model is not particularly complex, however the data itself is highly recursive and connected, for example one word may be related indirectly to many other words through any number of semantic and lexical links. The data cannot therefore be naturally segmented into graphs, but must be link able at every level such that graphs may be assembled dynamically. In HBase™ and other columnar data-stores this results in more rows as opposed to columns, and consequently more round trips to assemble word graphs, typically one round trip per graph node.

2.) Code Generation. Using PlasmaSDO® both a Service Data Objects (SDO) persistence layer and Domain Specific Language (DSL) query layer were generated from the Wordnet® UML model. These generated packages are used in the application to query and update HBase™ and other data store using respective CloudGraph® data access Service. Javadocs for the generated code can be browsed in the Javadocs section of this application.

3.) HBase™ Table Mapping. For this application, all Wordnet® RDB tables and views were collapsed into a single target HBase™ table. Any number of HBase™ tables could have been used but Wordnet® is often used as part of larger applications, so to economize on tables (typical rule-of-thumb is no more than 10 HBase™ tables per application) a single table was used. Using the CloudGraph® configuration facility, all Wordnet® data graphs were mapped to the HBase™ data-store table(s) with specific model root types and composite row key definitions.

4.) Data Migration. Using the generated persistence and DSL query packages mentioned above, custom mapreduce jobs for data migration were written to read from the Wordnet® relational database using CloudGraph® RDB service and incrementally write to the HBase™, Cassandra and other data stores using the respective CloudGraph® data access service. 

5.) Web Application Creation. Finally with an HBase™, Cassandra and other data stores populated with all the rich semantic and lexical data from Wordnet®, two services and a JSF based web application were written using the new AJAX and JQuery based PrimeFaces JSF component set. The first service is called from the auto-complete field which triggers CloudGraph® HBase™ to use the HBase™ <a href="http://hbase.apache.org/apidocs/org/apache/hadoop/hbase/filter/FuzzyRowFilter.html">fuzzy row filter</a> API. Then using the selected word, the 'find' button calls a second service which uses a large DSL query spanning all semantic and lexical relations for the given word, as well as several other entities such as example sentences. The DSL query spans more than 7 nodes from the source word to its related target words looking (very roughly) like Words->Senses->Synsets->Semlinks/Lexlinks->Synsets->Senses->Words. Larger word relation graphs typically contain over 100 nodes and are assembled in the middle tier in an average of 200 milliseconds from a 3 node CentOs-Linux HBase cluster.

WordNet® is a registered trademark of Princeton University. HBase™ is a trademark of Apache Software Foundation. MySql® is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation. CloudGraph® is a registerd trademark of TerraMeta Software Inc. 

